Add July 2021 minutes (#144)
tc39/tc39-notes: meetings/2021-07/july-13.md

CP: We also have a polyfill that we have implemented a few months ago, we have test for that too. We actually validate one of Jack's concerns which was whether, or not the callable boundary was enough to be able to implement a membrane on top of it. So we have a very tiny Library, about 1kb, 1.5kb, very simple implementation, but a robust implementation of a membrane library. That allows you to do that kind of advanced use cases if that's what you need. Many of the use cases don't even need that, instead you just need a way to create a realm to evaluate code and maybe get access to some bits out of the realm. So with that in mind, we believe that we're ready for stage 3 and we are ready to open the debate. Questions?

> JHD:. So the first one I added was, I mean if this event since this membrane Library, so tiny, why not just support that directly in the language as opposed to making people add this easy to get wrong Library, even if it's small?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
JHD:. So the first one I added was, I mean if this event since this membrane library is so tiny, why not just support that directly in the language as opposed to making people add this easy-to-get-wrong library, even if it's small?
```

CP: yeah, I want to add one thing to what, just, what marks said and is that the callable boundary? There is actually help a lot when it comes to having that membrane between two rooms and we have been working on this for quite some time and before they call Obama it was a thing and it was a common mistake when you implement a membrane to have issues with the separation and object from the other side. And so on, especially with errors and throwing errors between implications across the boundary. So it actually helps a lot to have that separation place.

> JHD: Okay, and then just a real quick and then I'll move on to the replies so you're saying that there is no. larger feature before you get to the points of disagreement that Mark described. Beyond this. Like there's no there's no hop between callable Realms and full membranes with a decided distortion mechanism. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
JHD: Okay, and then just a real quick and then I'll move on to the replies so you're saying that there is no larger feature before you get to the points of disagreement that Mark described. Beyond this. Like there's no there's no hop between callable Realms and full membranes with a decided distortion mechanism?
```

CP: Yeah. So then we call this Y 2 Jordan, the terms that we use for that is integrity preserving, semantics of the callable boundary. So if you just cannot share that the object. 

> JHD: So just to clarify, again, Current the boundary API does not permit. Any way to get direct object object access access over here. He's taste test. And you're saying that's like safer because it just does what you want already and handles. All of the separation for you is that accurate correct? 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
JHD: So just to clarify, again, Current the boundary API does not permit any way to get direct object access access, and you're saying that's safer because it just does what you want already and handles all of the separation for you. is that accurate? 
```

JRL: Correct. We don't want to share objects. We only need the ability to run on other code without giving them access to our globals, the integrity boundary. 

> JDH: So just as a brief thought, experiment to make Sure, I have the understanding correct. If the old Realms API had some sort of Constructor option that like opted you into this mode, such that you didn't have to worry about it. Would that achieve the same goal for you? 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
JHD: So just as a brief thought experiment to make sure I have the understanding correct: if the old Realms API had some sort of constructor option that like opted you into this mode, such that you didn't have to worry about it, would that achieve the same goal for you? 
```

CM: Yeah just two just to share that in the previous proposal that was a getter on the input of the realm. That get a give you access to the global object that was removed. There's nothing that prevents of adding that in the future. If we feel that that's really what is needed. Just that at the moment, we believe that's a foot Khan and it's very error-prone. And yes, they are previous around that, like, the iPhones and the DM toes come with without issue the identity. This Tissue. 

DE: so, I'm kind of having trouble following some of the discussion about use cases because I get to their use cases for shared objects are almost but they're also use cases. Many use cases presented for Caldwell boundary problems and the existence of one class of use cases doesn't negate that the other class. So I could I can see the argument for for adding this a good proposal but I don't see why this gets tied up in that other one. This realms proposal meets, the use cases that the champion group has the champion that, you know, presented the motivation and brought it to stage two. So, this, you know, the current the current path makes sense to me, even if it doesn't everybody's problem. 

> JHD: So to be cleared an the at the time it was brought to stage two. It's solved the shared object use cases also, so callable boundary around is effectively a brand new proposal that happens to solve some of the use cases of the proposal that went to stage two. So it's I think it's an it's not really fair to characterize this as like, oh well, these are just two overlapping proposals because, like, essentially the stage 2 proposal was kind of replaced very recently replaced with a One that does not solve all of the use cases that the stage 2 proposal solved. The fact that the champion group at only has a subset of those use cases, doesn't also negate that the stage 2 presumption. We all had was that all of those use cases were solved and that's what my next sort of queue item is around. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
JHD: So to be clear, at the time it was brought to stage 2, it solved the shared object use cases also, so callable boundary is effectively a brand new proposal that happens to solve some of the use cases of the proposal that went to stage 2. So it's I think it's not really fair to characterize this as like, "oh well, these are just two overlapping proposals" because essentially the stage 2 proposal was kind of replaced  - very recently - with one that does not solve all of the use cases that the stage 2 proposal solved. The fact that the champion group only has a subset of those use cases, doesn't also negate that the stage 2 presumption we all had was that all of those use cases were solved and that's what my next sort of queue item is about. 
```

> MM: Yeah. Historically, Jordan is correct, The Realms without the callable boundary. Certainly enables the call, the boundary, to be built at the user level. the thing that solved by building the callable the boundary in is enforcing isolation. And if the isolation is optional, then it's not something that needed to be enforced by an inescapable mechanism in which case building it into the platform is, is with note is no longer solving a fundamental problem if you make it optional, because the only fundamental difference between providing at the user level and providing it in the platform is that the is that we can make it non-optional by putting to into the platforms. So, once again, historically I think it's the the way we ended up here is that some of the people objectioning to the nature of the stage 2 proposal wanted to make the isolation mandatory. So I think I have trouble characterizing this as well. If we want to make it optional, can add an option to make it optional in the future. I'm uncomfortable with that because if we wanted to make it optional, then I agree that we shouldn't introduce the callable boundary in the first place. But, what we found was we were deadlocked on moving it forward, whereas the callable boundary meets the use cases that most of us have in mind, That would be happy either way. And satisfies those who want to make the isolation mandatory.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
MM: Yeah. Historically, JHD is correct, The Realms without the callable boundary. Certainly enables the call, the boundary, to be built at the user level. the thing that solved by building the callable the boundary in is enforcing isolation. And if the isolation is optional, then it's not something that needed to be enforced by an inescapable mechanism in which case building it into the platform is, is with note is no longer solving a fundamental problem if you make it optional, because the only fundamental difference between providing at the user level and providing it in the platform is that the is that we can make it non-optional by putting to into the platforms. So, once again, historically I think it's the the way we ended up here is that some of the people objectioning to the nature of the stage 2 proposal wanted to make the isolation mandatory. So I think I have trouble characterizing this as well. If we want to make it optional, can add an option to make it optional in the future. I'm uncomfortable with that because if we wanted to make it optional, then I agree that we shouldn't introduce the callable boundary in the first place. But, what we found was we were deadlocked on moving it forward, whereas the callable boundary meets the use cases that most of us have in mind, That would be happy either way. And satisfies those who want to make the isolation mandatory.
```

MM: We have blocking objections to providing direct object access. I mean, that just the reality of trying to advance this thing is that we've got blocking objections to providing direct object access. Which why the callable boundary was necessary to having a proposal that could advance.

GCL: Yeah. And they objects like having an option too right?

CP: Apparently yes. 

GCL: Okay, that's already. I don't understand that but I'm not going to block this proposal. Either way. I'm just very perplexed about it.

JHD: I have a clarifying question there, Caridy. if I call another Realms object function and pass it string and then is the object I get back. Does it have the internal Slots of a string? 

CP: Nope. Nope, you're getting a proxy. The proxy does not have the internal slot, right? 

> JHD: So, Okay, yeah, thank you. As Mark has pointed out. There have been some blocking objections by folks who are represented by people in this room, but who have not debated these objections directly in this room. It's my understanding, which is basically saying the capability that browsers and node users already have should not be something we continue. We permit in a new API for reasons. I don't understand that all the arguments the arguments I've heard are very Good compelling Arguments for what default should be. The default should be what Justin and amp needs, right? Which is like the safer thing where I default it like you can't escape the abstraction, right? Like that that's very compelling argument but none of those arguments do need preclude, the capability. And there are use cases that require the capability. I specifically had these cases where I need to get objects with you. Read the journal slots, including the approxi to it. It's not sufficient and for built-ins like that. I know about, I could probably write a wrapper that like, detects an incoming thing with slots and reconstructs the thing with slots coming out. but like, that's going to very difficult and very easy to get wrong. So I guess it's if I think it's like my personal feeling is that 90% of the people who want solve this problem in this room, and that's a ballpark number. Some will, have their use cases, men and will. And we'll have much lesser much reduced forms of motivation to advance things, and the people who have their who have created, this sort of Deadlock and forced our alternative. Forced to callable Realms. boundary callable boundary Realms as an alternative. Will not have ever needed to come into this room and argue their points directly. They'll they have only done it by proxy and that is very frustrating because It doesn't matter. Solely what the Use cases the champion group has the proposal as it entered stage to solve a set of use cases. The champion group may only cover a subset of those, but all of those use cases are what like met the stage Two criteria we expect. So for the solution into the language, we agree. Those are these cases We want to solve this approach is effectively magically creating a new proposal that's already at stage 2, somehow. And asking for it to go to stage 3 while simultaneously magically discarding the existing proposal and I'm saying that in the sense that like some of those use cases are no longer achievable

Reviewer: ```suggestion
JHD: So, Okay, yeah, thank you. As Mark has pointed out, there have been some blocking objections by folks who are represented by people in this room, but who have not debated these objections directly in this room. It's my understanding that this is basically saying the capability (that browsers and node users already have) should not be something we permit in a new API for "reasons". All the arguments I've heard are very good, compelling arguments for what the default should be. The default should be what Justin and AMP needs - which is the safer thing, where you can't escape the abstraction. That's a very compelling argument, but none of those arguments preclude the capability, and there are use cases that require the capability. I specifically had these cases where I need to get objects with internal slots. A Proxy to it is not sufficient for built-ins like that. I could probably write a wrapper that like, detects an incoming thing with slots and reconstructs the thing with slots coming out, but that's going to very difficult and very easy to get wrong. So I guess it's if I think it's like my personal feeling is that 90% of the people who want solve this problem in this room, and that's a ballpark number. Some will have their use cases met, and we'll have much lesser, much reduced forms of motivation to advance things, and the people who have created this sort of deadlock and forced callable boundary Realms as an alternative will not have ever needed to come into this room and argue their points directly. They'll they have only done it by proxy, and that is very frustrating because It doesn't solely matter what use cases the champion group has - the proposal as it entered stage 2 solved a set of use cases. The champion group may only cover a subset of those, but all of those use cases are what were met. The stage 2 criteria means we expect the solution to go into the language, we agree those are these cases we want to solve. This approach is effectively magically creating a new proposal that's already at stage 2, somehow - and asking for it to go to stage 3 while simultaneously magically discarding the existing proposal. I'm saying that in the sense that some of those use cases are no longer achievable.
```

MM:  The argument against direct opposite object access, whether you agree with it or not is a technical argument. the technical argument, is that Shu, You're the one who is the closest that I know of to a representative in the room of the objection. So, please correct me if I'm characterizing the objection wrongly here, but the objection as I understand it, is that if forums are provided, people will try to use it as effectively and isolation mechanism. Call it a security mechanism. If you wish experience and I'll agree with this from the Agoric experience, trying to do, ad hoc isolation on around boundary, with direct object access shows that it is terribly easy to get wrong. It's incredibly easy to make a mistake, such that objects leak, that can be solved either by having well debuggable available libraries like membranes or like your user level calledable boundaries. but the objection is people will underestimate the problem. preserving isolation with ad hoc libraries at the boundary, people will get it wrong. And we will then have security bugs as a result of not having had an enforced reliable isolation

> JHD: I'll try and speak slowly maybe not too slowly, had four minutes left shame. So we basically switched from the “only has the foot gun / capability” version to an “Only lacks the foot gun / capability” version. The other option that like, you know, that I would be more interested in is something that defaults to the safer, more restrictive one and allows opting in to the Wider, more powerful, but, you know, easier to screw up version. To me, that would be that would solve all of the use cases presented, my guess is - I know without having that version available and regathering, the evidence that Shu was talking about. I don't know how to confirm that guess. But my guess is that if we named everything, appropriately, whatever that means that we would be able to convey the risk and reduce the foot gun, likelihood that. So that's what I'm interested in seeing. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
JHD: So we basically switched from the “only has the foot gun / capability” version to an “Only lacks the foot gun / capability” version. The other option that I would be more interested in is something that defaults to the safer, more restrictive one and allows opting in to the wider, more powerful, but easier to screw up version. To me, that would solve all of the use cases presented. I know without having that version available and regathering the evidence that SYG was talking about. I don't know how to confirm that guess. But my guess is that if we named everything appropriately, whatever that means, that we would be able to convey the risk and reduce the footgun likelihood. So that's what I'm interested in seeing.
```

SYG: I think Jordan would if I read you correctly, you were directly addressing Chrome in the good faith path forward. Not not that the champion group right now, the champion group. 

> JHD:That's right. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
JHD: That's right.
```

JHD: So maybe another day I'll discuss that. 

USA: Okay. Wait, we're at the top of the time box. Thank you everyone for the discussion. Do we want to continue this at a later time as an extension? 

CP: Well, first I would like to ask is if there is any objection for stage 3 at this point.

JHD: There needs to be discussed out before we get to that question. 

> SYJ: Is there anything that we can work through to we re discussed it? And what are the available slots for continue this discussion? 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
SYG: Is there anything that we can work through to we re discussed it? And what are the available slots for continue this discussion? 
```
(i *think* this is the correct speaker)
